# SSD for Predictive Maintenance

Predictive maintenance is a proactive maintenance strategy that seeks to predict when failures are likely to occur in machinery to maintain it before any critical failures take place. Predictive maintenance aims to minimize the costs associated with both the downtime of machinery and undergoing major repair operations. This approach involves continual monitoring of machinery during use so that any deterioration that may lead to faults can be detected ahead of time. To monitor the machinery, various types of sensors are fitted which provide data on how different parts of the machines are operating. This data must then be analyzed to find signs of potential issues and degradation. The data from many of these sensors comes in the form of signals, and analyzing these signals for signs of faults is no trivial task. Although various techniques including machine learning and statistical modeling have already been applied, this project endeavours to discover the utility of Singular Spectrum Decomposition (SSD) within this domain

SSD is a decomposition method that decomposes non-linear and nonstationary signals into narrow-banded frequency components. By applying SSD to both real-world and synthetic datasets our research hopes to discover whether the acquired components can help identify signs of failure and give additional insight into the specific nature of the faults. Resulting decompositions will be studied both visually and through machine learning techniques to identify how and when SSD can be most useful in the predictive maintenance domain.
